The job that you took, Collection's class is made up of static methods that operate on or return collections,
although some of the methods have been rendered somewhat redundant because of the additions of the default
and static methods on the collections framework interfaces, there are still many useful algorithms
available to you and you will be tested on at least a few of them.
Perhaps in comparison to the collection interfaces methods, the collections class contains about 70
static methods, so it's obviously outside of the scope of this course to review them all.
The methods range from data manipulation at all, fuel, rotate, sort, shuffle, among others, search
and comparison, binary search, disjoint frequency, index of sublist, last index of sublist, max
and Min generation of views backed by the original collection Aslaug IQ checked except for Map and Copy's
transformations to both mutable copy and immutable collections in copies.
Singleton Singleton List, Singleton Map and modifiable list and modifiable map and modifiable set.
So let's try some of them out.
So let's go back to the idea.
We need a new class in our collections project, going to call this one collections methods.
Robots are the class jobs posted in I'm reviewing a few of the static methods used for data manipulation
on the collection's class, which might pop up in a code segment on the exam.
So you can say that we're setting up some test data there.
Then we're using various methods that we've talked about.
Swap, shuffle, sort.
I mean, Max, etc., so so I use to feel there are 53, so let's run this.
And you can see the output on screen right next, but I want to look at some of the modifiable collections
which can be retrieved from the collections class to append some code to do that.
So I have to do that on the bottom or I can see the card that I've added starting a line fifty seven
there, the seven modifiable list, their list of copy of those are the collections that Singleton list
on line 70.
That's from this.
They're looking at this code.
Data collections that sought a large 72 executed without an error.
The single method returns a list of one element and one element only an immutable list, sorting a list
of one element is not sorting the lists.
This method doesn't cause an error.
Robots are continuing on.
Let's try something else, we'll try to add something to be to Ellis, I peed on Ed and I'll add Mary
has a string in parentheses if you run this.
An unsupported operation, exceptions, you can see there, and that's again, because the list created
is an immutable list.
That's the list using the single 10 list method call.
So you probably say one or several code segments that test your knowledge of which methods create immutable
lists.
So going to do that line of code so it doesn't crash anymore.
And I got a post in some kadence place.
So that's the case starting on line 76, this code uses the single wireless method to pass a single
elementalist to a constructor of a realist L2.
You can see that online 76.
That's similar to the list that I create further down one.
But that one's using Lyster of.
Now I'm adding an element to L2 line 77, confirming that using an immutable list in a constructor does
not also produce an immutable list.
Well, I hope that's the case where we run it.
And then further on down, I mean, collections copy copying L2 into one and finally adding an element
to it or to align any anyone and printing out the results.
So let's run this code.
And you can say we've got the right output.
Now let's try something else.
Let's try commenting out on seventy seven sites, no longer doing an ad of a string for.
That's from the again now.
This time, with no exception, and you can see that the exceptions is an index out of bounds, exception
source does not fit in destination.
When do you use collections that copy the destination list must be able to accommodate all of the elements
in the arguments list?
That's what I'm going to do, is committer on seventy eight through eighty two, so you've got a reference
to it and then I'm going to do is replace the code.
It's the following.
What I've done there is of Swopped, L1 and L2 in all cases, with the exception of the first statement
that we've done that noting that the that line seventy seven is still committed out to previously caused
an exception, running it now.
Everything works as expected, so from this.
You can say that one element in L2 was copied to L1.
You can say that with the output at the bottom of the screen there, Levie, the other elements of L1
intact.
So let's look at a couple more examples.
There are still some more code.
So collections and copies gives you a list of the number of specified elements, 10 here initialized
to some value in this case now.
So let's run that.
And this he appeared on screen confirming that we've got 10 nosier.
Some code to the name of this list might give you a clue about what's going to happen when we run this
code that I've added.
Obviously, the comp. But when we read it, we've got an unsupported operation exception because, of
course, it's removalist.
I'm going to undo that code.
I'm going to add some more code here.
So this code segment, I'm using collections and copies in the constructor of a realist, which allows
me to initialize the Israelis to a certain number of elements or with some default values.
And you can see the output's worked.
As did the set online 95.
It's a good idea to familiarize yourself with the many methods on the collections class, comparing
them to the newer methods on this collection and set, for example, what's going on in the next three
videos.
I'll be taking a look at some of the out of ordinary features of wrappers and collections.
See you in the next video.